# Processing-Power-Assembly-Line-Scheduling-Using-Tabulation-Dynamic-Programming-Algorithm
Dynamic Programming is an Algorithmic Paradigm of Coding which is usually used to solve problems that have a tendency to overlap its sub-sections, hence making it tedious and far more complex than it initially shows itself to be. Dynamic Programming approach to solving such problems helps overcome overlapping, hence making the code more efficient and the time of the code less complex and faster. It is usually handy when solving to find an optimal solution to a problem, i.e.- finding the most cost efficient solution out of all the feasible solutions. This is an Optimization Problem, and algorithms like Dynamic Programming, Greedy Algorithms, etc. have a knack for crushing such problems.
        
Dynamic Program depends on finding optimal sub problems of the given problem till each sub-section is solvable, all while keeping tabs of repetitions and overlapping in a tabulation format in order to avoid running the same calculations multiple times. Memoization and Tabulation Methods are used efficiently in Dynamic Programming to avoid overlapping and solve the problem in a much simpler time complexity.
    
The frequently encountered "Assembly Line Scheduling" problem is an interesting problem that can be solved using Dynamic Programming. Here, 2 Assembly lines are present each with a stipulated service time, stations, enter/exit times, assembly line transfer cost, etc. The idea is to find the most cost effective path via machine transfers and assembly line scheduling using Tabulation in Dynamic Programming. This way, path finding is made less complex as optimal paths from a given station at the assembly line are already tabulated for later use, eradicating the possibility of overlapping.
